# Dev Meeting Notes for 2021-08-06

## Agenda

1. [x] High-level review of `constructor-refactor` PR.
2. (near-term priority) Things to do before Sept 14 Flagship Meetup.
    - demo notebook?
3. Things to do for public 1.x release.
4. Longer-term development tasks
5. Tech paper (in PyMC3-style).

## Discussion

### `constructor-refactor` PR

Key questions:

1. Is it ready to be merged?
2. If not, what else needs to be done there?

Be careful with scope creep.

### Public release

Proposed checklist of specific items to do for the release:

1. User-facing documentation:
    - [x] Convert `SeqLike_Tutorial.ipynb` into a 5-minute guide notebook.
    - [ ] Developer documentation for overview of library.
    - [ ] "How to contribute"
    - [ ] anything else?
2. Repository (could be on Bitbucket or GitHub); notes below are assuming GitHub-based release:
    - [ ] github.com/modernatx/seqlike (yes please!).
    - [ ] Need permissions to be added to organization. User names:
        - Anderew: andrewgiessel
        - Mihir:
        - Eric: ericmjl
        - Nasos:
        - Max:
    - [ ] GitHub actions CI for continuous testing.
3. Code:
    - [ ] We'd have `mtx-seqlike` which are proprietary/internal-only add-ons to `seqlike`.
    - [ ] Keep Kasuza codon tables, move everything else to `mtx-seqlike`. (Also scrub from git history.)
    - [ ] OSS seqlike becomes source of truth for further development.

Legal and communications issues:

1. When we want to do an official release, we'd want lawyers to be involved.
2. For communications - this'd be the first software we'd release.
3. Can be open sourced on Bitbucket.org. (Pipelines for open source packages?)
    - GH community could be bigger.
    - modernatx org already on GitHub (h/t Dave)
    - we'd like to have unlimited CI minutes (ideally) on public repos.

### Longer-term dev tasks

1. Tests refactor. List this as a project on GitHub's Projects tab -- find edge cases using Hypothesis.
2. Improve docstring coverage on test suite and library.
3. Add in sphinx-style docstrings as opportunities for OSS contributions.
4. Drop codon tables in `codon_tables.py` and replace it with `python-codon-tables` and replace our codon-table handling functions.
5. Clean-up code that calls external libraries. (nice-to-have)
6. Support for other MSA command-line tools.
7. Add in I/O tools (possibly?)

### Tech paper & sprints

Key questions: Which target software journal?

- PeerJ CS
- JOSS (Journal of Open Source Software) --> this is the easiest, FYI.
- Any others?

A conference submission is also a good avenue.
`pyjanitor` was submitted via the SciPy conference in 2019.
Gives us the opportunity to lead a sprint,
which would help onboard newcomers to the project.
Second order effects include growing the community of users
(who will contribute cool ideas that we might not have thought of!)
and identifying new maintainers (to share maintenance load).

We can defer this decision till later.

## Action Items

- [ ] AG: Check if BB has unlimited minutes for public/open source repositories.
- [ ] AG: Ask DJ to add AG on github.com/modernatx organization as owner
- [ ] EM: SeqLike_tutorial.ipynb. Highlights for alignment, plotting, indexing.
    - [ ] MM: Review notebook.
